>> Mike North: So in terms of how we
can save ourselves from these things,
you want to escape user data
before putting it into HTML.
So there are two things you wanna do.
One is sanitize it before
data is persistent.
And the other is sanitize data before
it's rendered onto the screen.
And so typically,
you want to do both because
there are always holes in
sanitatization methods, little holes.
And if you have two layers of defense,
then you're less likely to have
something that is truly exploitable.
And furthermore, it's quite a bit
easier to sanitize data right
before you render it, than to worry
about properly disallowing all
bad things without interfering
with genuine user input, right?
So in this case, we can see that the
script above turns into the string below.
And the JavaScript functions you'd use
to run that are escape URI component,
or escape URI.
That will basically make it so
that you end up with a string
that when rendered will be text for
a scrip tag on a screen.
You will see that scrip
tag as text instead of
feeling it being run as code,
if that makes sense.
So every view library you've heard of for
the most part does this automatically.
This is not a guarantee.
I'm not saying you are safe with
the thing that you're using.
But most of them react to in ember and
view.
They have considerable cross-site
scripting protection built in, right?
Where you have to do work to
get out to deviate from it.
You have to do extra work in order to make
it so that a vulnerability is present,
basically opt in to the unsafe.
>> Mike North: For
the library we're using here today,
here's the convention that's used.
So anything between percent signs is
generally, that's a JavaScript expression.
If you use percent equals,
that ends up being an escaped expression,
meaning that's cross-site scripting
protection is working for us there.
If instead of the equals,
we use a dash, there is no protection.
And if we have neither an equals nor
a dash, just the percent sign alone,
that's just a JavaScript expression
that will be evaluated, but the output
will not be rendered into the HTML.
>> Mike North: So
here's a little cheat sheet for
different libraries and
how you can know that
you're in the danger zone.
These are the danger zones.
In Ember and Vue it's the triple curlies,
triple handlebars.
Anytime you see that,
it's gonna take that string unescaped and
it's gonna treat it as HTML, right?
So if that turned into a script tag,
you are potentially vulnerable there.
React, I love their approach here.
You have to actually write the words
dangerously set in their HTML.
And if you find yourself writing
that word, stop and think.
Ejs, that is the unsafe thing there.
So there are a couple of
things like that in this app,
and we may be on our way
to going to fix them.
So you'd wanna change that minus
sign after the first percent
in the Ejs row to an equals.
And then we would get our protection,
right?
Angular, there's an attribute.
Inside square brackets called innerHTML,
and that will be Unescaped.
That one is not necessarily as obvious,
unless you know that innerHTML
is potentially dangerous.
You could let that sail through
a code review pretty easily.
And then, finally, in Jade,
if anyone is using Jade, that is the form
with exclamation marks on either side.
That'll be treated as
basically an HTML value
instead of a text value.
>> Mike North: So
that is defense
>> Mike North: Yeah,
that is defense number one, escaping data.
Sanitize it first.
Also, when you are putting stuff
in attributes, Escape it as well.
There's a great node library
that is maintained by a set of
penetration testers.
It is not small, but it is comprehensive.
So it might be good to take this if you
wanted to sanitize a database, this would
be a good service, I think, to use where
you're going through all of your values,
and basically evaluating whether
anything seems to raise any flags.
There are so many different tricks
you can use involving things
like capitalization and
adding funky forms of white space that
are designed to basically pass through
rudimentary cross-site scripting filters.
So it's not as simple as just look for
a script tag.
There are other ways that you can
defeat some of the basic detection
methods.
>> Mike North: And then, be super, super
careful, anywhere that you're putting
a user's value templated into code.
Meaning if you have a JavaScript file
that, when it's rendered up by a server,
it puts something into place,
that is absolutely bad.
Do not do that.
Have it so that your code will go and
retrieve a value from somewhere and
consume the value that way.
You want user input to be
treated as values, not as code.
And in this case,
that could easily become code, right?
If it starts and ends with a quote, and
then we have alert whatever in the middle,
that'll be executed.
But there's no way that that would happen
if, for example, it was a templated JSON
file that your code was reading, cuz you
cannot have executable code in there.
Does that make sense to everyone?
Keep user values a values, not as code.